                                                              University of Hong Kong DESN2003
                                                                        3036325602 Davina Chan

Research Question​
How does implementing passive design strategies in new buildings affect ventilation compared
to traditional designs?

Extended Abstract
Climate change, is an increasingly pressing issue in modern day society as we struggle to
reverse the damages that have been done over the course of several decades, releasing
heat-trapping greenhouses gases, pollution and more have opened the Earth to inevitable
damage that although is being actively reversed still causes severe issues for our daily
activities, such as changes in temperatures, causing droughts, flooding, overheating and
several other issues that can be resolved if anticipated when planning the buildings and facilities
of the city.

Some of these issues, as seen in Hong Kong, is the change in temperature. Hong Kong’s winter
is shrinking, with year averages increasing as winter temperatures struggle to reach under 18
degrees, especially in the winter of 2025-2026. As such, many facilities and events have been
affected as Hong Kong simply isn’t cold enough. Citizens still sweat, increasing the usage of
aircons in their own areas, and the utilization of other cooling products that creates more trash,
and more greenhouse gases to be released. Issues that can be resolved with designs that
promote open-air flows, and other products that can be produced in anticipation of facing such
issues. Issues that I believe artificial intelligence can predict if given a large set of urban data.

Thus, leading to the question, how does implementing passive design strategies in new
buildings affect energy consumption compared to traditional designs? Is there perhaps a
strategy that could be used in HK’s tightly packed spaces to allow for better natural ventilation?

Many urban cities now publish and claim to operate towards ambitious climate action plans,
however, the spatial design of streets, buildings, and open spaces doesn’t reflect their local
climate risks. Given the advancements made in artificial intelligence and its nature of design to
be able to process large amounts of data, I believe by integrating artificial intelligence into the
city planning while accounting for climate change, may significantly decrease the risks that cities
face as they pursue their climate action plan.

Artificial intelligence is now continuing to improve and integrate into modern society as a tool for
academic success and a high technology search engine. However, given its large operation size
and its fast operating speed, artificial intelligence should and can be used for more. Artificial
intelligence is known for its ability to process large data sets, as such, it could surely process
urban datasets and generate rapid spatial analysis or even design options, however, in the
current market, artificial intelligence is rarely used for uses such as everyday design workflow in
studios or planning department in fear of being replaced. However, I believe that artificial
intelligence should be viewed as a tool, not as a replacement for human creativity.
Literature Review
Out with the Old, In with the New
Hong Kong society relies heavily on the usage of air conditioners, due to the temperaments of a
subtropical climate. As stated in DeWolf (2010), air conditions use a large amount of energy,
and only adds to a cycle of climate change. As such we must recognize the problem of heavily
relying on non-renewable fuel, and focus on switching to natural ventilation for long term
betterment of ventilation.

Currently, according to Reach Technology (2021), architectural firms rely heavily on simulation
tools and thermal modelings which use simple airflow network models. However, most of these
tools do not capture wind turbulence, external wind conditions, local building context or the
potential impacts of local terrain.

Secondly, based on the research article (Wang et al., 2013), a case study of a natural ventilation
housing project was studied for its failure. A LEED-certified townhouse development in Beijing,
North China was carried out in May 2011. And later failed due to multiple reasons. One such
reason being the lack of account of localized climate calculations, and general calculations and
predictions of local climate being taken into the design.

Furthermore, there are many errors in using LEED standardized tools, as per Fail (2019), LEED
heavily focuses on the environmental factors of air quality and wind, rather than focusing on the
toxicity. Although our research aims to improve natural ventilation, toxicity and the general
health and safety of the users will also be heavily weighted, and monitored.

Passive Cooling Strategies
According to the research (Shiva Manshour & Lehmann, 2025), the potential benefits of
integrating years worth of traditional knowledge and merging said knowledge with modern
innovations may very well be the best way to achieve the perfect thermal comfort, extending to
the natural ventilation of buildings.

As researched by Du (2019), sun shading and insulation are vital in the development of a
building to work with natural ventilation. The document praises the structural integrity of
vernacular buildings, blending local culture into the building while thinking about the natural
ventilation and optimal wind corridor designs.

According to the research (Han et al., 2025), it talks of a machine learning-guided
semi-empirical model designed to predict single-sided natural ventilation rates, enhancing the
accuracy of airflow calculations by integrating complex environmental variables and improving
traditional modeling methods. Showing the possibility of integration of artificial intelligence.

The Solution
As mentioned in (Natural Ventilation in Buildings -Architectural Concepts, Consequences and
Possibilities, n.d.), natural ventilation has several benefits. Reducing energy usage to net zero,
allowing for natural lighting, and implementation of greenery.
According to research (Bachand et al., 2026), the sheer complexity of the planning involved
requires a large amount of processing power, power which AI can provide to study and process
quantitative data such as calculations of wind angles, and enhanced parametrization. The
research furthermore emphasizes that predicting wind-driven natural ventilation is more complex
than commonly thought, which asks for prediction and scenario runs to ensure the building can
withstand different weathers.

AI integration in this aspect can not only improve the calculation time, saving architectural teams
from human errors and efforts in calculations when AI can utilize data sets to predict future
turmoils. Using data provided by the Hong Kong Observatory (Hong Kong Observatory, 2025),
publicized data from the government (Hong Kong Government, 2026), as well as publicized
data from the Chinese datasets (Esri China (HK), 2017), it would be possible to determine and
predict the best outcome for the buildings.

Bridge Between the Gap
I believe the gap between the traditional methods of planning buildings for natural ventilation
and minimization of energy usage. Climate-responsive design should be a top priority, and
linking artificial intelligence usages into the traditional methods and strategies used before
should strengthen our buildings and designs, offering insight and preparation for any future
scenarios.

References
Bachand, N., Salehipour, H., & Gorlé, C. (2026). Simulating the urban canopy’s impact on
      wind-driven natural ventilation. Flow, 6. https://doi.org/10.1017/flo.2025.10039

DeWolf, C. (2010, October 15). Hong Kong’s Air Conditioning Addiction. Maisonneuve.
      https://maisonneuve.org/article/2010/10/15/hong-kongs-air-conditioning-addiction/

Du, X. (2019). Passive cooling techniques. DOAJ (DOAJ: Directory of Open Access Journals),
        10. https://doi.org/10.7480/abe.19.10.4104

Esri China (HK). (2017). Daily mean wind speed in Hong Kong. Esrichina.hk.
       https://opendata.esrichina.hk/datasets/daily-mean-wind-speed-in-hong-kong/explore

Fail, S. (2019). LEED Building Standards Fail to Protect Human Health. Yale E360.
         https://e360.yale.edu/features/leed_building_standards_fail_to_protect_human_health

Han, J. M., Wu, W., & Malkawi, A. (2025). A machine learning-guided semi-empirical model for
       predicting single-sided natural ventilation rates. Energy and Buildings, 344, 115974.
       https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2025.115974

Hong Kong Government. (2026). Daily mean wind speed - Daily Mean Wind Speed All Year -
      Hong Kong International Airport | DATA.GOV.HK. Data.gov.hk.
      https://data.gov.hk/en-data/dataset/hk-hko-rss-daily-mean-wind-speed/resource/8a07045
      a-863d-48ee-88f0-38289af56cf8
Hong Kong Observatory. (2025). Mean Wind. Hko.gov.hk.
      https://www.hko.gov.hk/en/wxinfo/ts/index_wind.htm

Natural Ventilation in Buildings -architectural concepts, consequences and possibilities. (n.d.).
       https://www.sintef.no/globalassets/upload/smartbygg/natural-ventilation-in-buildings.pdf

Reach Technology. (2021, April 28). Designing Natural Ventilation Strategies for New and
      Existing Buildings - Construction Executive. Construction Executive - the Magazine for
      the Business of Construction.
      https://constructionexec.com/article/designing-natural-ventilation-strategies-for-new-and-
      existing-buildings/

Shiva Manshour, & Lehmann, S. (2025, July 12). A Systematic Review of Passive Cooling
       Strategies Integrating Traditional Wisdom and Modern Innovations for Sustainable
       Development in Arid Urban Environments. ResearchGate.
       https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.09365

Wang, H., Lin, H., Ng, V., Yang, T., & Guan, L. (2013, May 23). Failure of natural ventilation
      strategy in a sustainable house in China . International Journal of Low-Carbon
      Technologies, 21, 216–228.
      https://academic.oup.com/ijlct/article/10/3/216/702992#12366948
