Research Question: What design features of pop culture collectibles contribute to its
rising emotional consumption in Hong Kong among Gen Z?

Limits of Questionnaire Sampling and Social Media Engagement
Majority of studies (eg. Zhang, Xiyun, and Tatre Jantarakolica., 2024) use questionnaire,
sampling and existing psychological theories to analyze and estimate Gen Z consumer behavior
and its correlation to their emotional attachment to the related fandom culture, for example,
Popmart and social media communities.

The limitations have been acknowledged by studies in methodologies of conducting customer
experience study (Becker, Larissa., 2018) demonstrating the domination of questionnaires and
questionnaires tendencies to result in direct correlations rather than a descriptive insight into
the experience. Meanwhile suggesting quantitative empirical studies should be paired with
descriptive information including from customer’s firsthand perspective, the company
perspective as a comparison and with general observations to capture the broader view of
customer experience. While questionnaire-based approaches remain dominant across the recent
decade, researchers have acknowledged but not yet fully explore the physical dimensions of
collectibles engagement.

However, emotion consumption research has focused primarily on questionnaires inquiring the
survey takers’ purchase intentions and using social media as the main and only metric to track
Gen Z social engagement. Less attention has been paid to the other functions and features these
collectibles have that provide emotional value beyond the digital space and its value after the
purchase has been made.

Dimensions of Collectibles and Emotional Engagement

Research implicitly assumes that Gen Z engagement happens primarily in digital spaces such
as social media communities, online fandoms, virtual interactions. A small study on Gen Z
social interactions (Hu, Sumei., 2025) argues that social media is not the only source of social
interactions of interest among Gen Z. Circle-based social interactions are also a popular form
of Gen Z social life, also referred to as Interest-based social interactions. These interactions are
observed to take place outside of social media platforms and are shown to provide the same
emotional satisfaction Gen Z seeks in Emotional consumption.

Studies (eg. Anuwongpukdeechat, Supanut, 2024) often reduce Gen Z interest to quantifiable
social media metrics, excluding other forms of engagement. Even when the physical
interactions of collectibles are noted in journals (eg. Ong, Jazlyn Grace O., Arabela Rein B.
Garnace et. al, 2025), the findings remain descriptive rather than analytical and draw
conclusions from an individual account rather than examining patterns across multiple Gen Z.
Noting that collectibles provide "stress relief" without investigating how or why. This pattern
reflects a broader methodological gap: the field has documented that physical engagement
occurs, but not what features enable it or how it generates emotional value.

The collectibles’ post-purchase life, collectibles’ role in enabling social interactions, their
function as sources of ongoing emotional value beyond social media engagement are largely
absent in Gen Z emotional consumption behavior literature. Moreover, majority of collectibles
studied (eg. Cao, Liyan, and Mohd Farid Shamsudin, 2025) considers only the blind box market
where there is a broader definition of collectibles such as trading cards and merchandises that
do not have a blind box mechanism.

The Gap

What is missing is work that connects emotional consumption research – with its attention to
quantitative measurements of consumption behaviors – to capturing a broader scope of
engagement beyond the digital space and the collectibles’ features that promotes these activities.
Collectible emotional consumption process is not limited to the influence of purchase and
online exchange but also physical social activities across all collectibles, not limited to the blind
box mechanism but expanded to Trendy toys and Collectibles (TTC) as a whole. Exploring
these neglected areas is likely to reveal additional emotional experiences Gen Z have through
these collectibles in real life and provide insights into what makes a collectible emotionally
attractive and resonate with Gen Z, but they haven’t been studied.


References:

Andriyani, Andriyani. "The Role of Emotion in the Purchase Process of Generation
Z." PARADE RISET 3.1 (2025): 43-48.

Anuwongpukdeechat, Supanut. "Generation Z's consumer attitudes, social media engagement,
and purchase intentions in the art toys blind box market." (2024).

Becker, Larissa. "Methodological proposals for the study of consumer experience." Qualitative
market research: An international journal 21.4 (2018): 465-490.

Cao, Liyan, and Mohd Farid Shamsudin. "Emotion, Scarcity, and Self-Expression." Journal of
Undergraduate Social Science and Technology 3.1 (2025).

Hu, Sumei. "Social Interaction of Generation Z in China." Science Insights 46.1 (2025): 1723-
1728.

Ong, Jazlyn Grace O., Arabela Rein B. Garnace, and Faith Nicole B. Pastor. "The Mystery
Behind the Box: How Pop Mart’s Storyless Collectibles Cultivate Fandom and Brand Loyalty
in the Digital Age."(2025).

Suprawan, Lokweetpun, Wanny Oentoro, and Sarinya L. Suttharattanagul. "A test of moderated
serial mediation model of compulsive buying among Gen Z fandoms moderated by trash
talking." Young Consumers (2024).

Zhang, Xiyun, and Tatre Jantarakolica. Factors influencing consumers’ purchase intentions for
trendy toys and collectibles products: a survey from Bangkok, Thailand. No. 336518.
Thammasat University, 2024.
